on the internet when I'm telling people
things they already want to hear they
seem to find me real easy to understand
and what I'm delivering a message they
don't want to hear what I'm giving
people advice that's inconvenient to
them the challenges their ego the
challenges what's convenient in their
lives that challenges their enjoyment of
things they enjoy all of a sudden what
I'm saying seems to get real mysterious
seems to get real abstruse seems getting
real hard to understand so I know I have
a lot of experience of this now over
1,000 videos on YouTube and when you say
something as simple as you know what
there's a big difference between reading
philosophy like Aristotle and playing
video games
oh it's so abstruse how what are you
really saying where are you going with
this what are the implications this
argument really really how do you define
I had several people writing in to say
that my claim was logically flawed
so the claim that when I look back at my
childhood playing zilean on the Sega
Master System when I look back and I
think about that memory and the time
spent the hours invested in that and
then I try to play the same video game
today I compare that and the value that
my life - again I think it was actually
age 19 and age 39 but 20 years apart
reading the same book of philosophy
Beres though and I comment on that and I
reflect that and I say to the camera I
hope you make the right choice I hope
you do the right thing with your time
and your honor I hope you don't end up
with a lifetime of regrets
having sat at a desk Lemieux whoa whoa
wait a minute wait a minute wait how do
you define book and what do you really
mean here how do you define how do you
find waste of time logically this is
really hard
oh well you know um this is a slippery
slope fallacy some people wrote in to
say right this reminds me of some some
advice in attitudes about about romance
about human relationships in England I
heard this all the time so melissa
hasn't spent that much time with the
bird
British guys all the time would say like
well you know you can never make a woman
happy you can never make another person
happy you can never be responsible for
someone else's happiness so and here's
the weak part so why even try so there's
great phrase in England a lot of British
guys live by this keeper keen treat her
mean this is a justification for
basically just being awful to your
girlfriend and and and the principle the
thing is that each person should only be
interested in their own happiness in
their own why because you can't make
another person happy yes slippery slope
fallacy huh you think so
you think I mean this is this is a
different policy this is you can't be a
hundred percent perfect so why even try
to be fifty percent positive Y B Y B 50
percent or 80 percent
Y even find out how close to hundred
percent you can come why even try why
try hard right if you can't be one
percent right and we hear this all the
time and vegan isn't mine so one of the
main counter arguments was well you
could never be perfect you could never
devote all of your time to positive
things like humanitarian work and
philosophy and and learning so why even
try and again like the relationship to
me it's very parallel to what the
discourse about dating and romance in
England when I was there that I really I
heard and also read read in newspapers
and magazines you saw the extension of
that discourse going on in popular
culture um well you know their
conclusion is that they should be
completely devoted to their own
self-indulgence to their own enjoyment
whether that's through playing video
games or do anything else but if if they
were to read a book they would only find
reading a book justifiable on the same
grounds as being a form of escapism
self-indulgence entertainment and their
horror and their incomprehension is that
I'm not just calling into question video
games I'm calling it a question all
self-indulgence
all entertainment I'm saying
entertainment is childish entertainment
is for children and you know video games
are merely one example
they happen to be the example that we
have on a mass scale a problem with
addiction to with people spending 20
hours a week and more than 20 hours a
week playing I don't think we have a
problem with people doing pottery for
more than 20 hours a week in this sort
of thing um enjoyment enjoyment in the
context of a world where you could be
taking on adult responsibilities without
responsibilities for your own area
addition your own education making
yourself a better person or making the
world a better place how much can you
enjoy watering the lawn and gardening
when you know that behind you your house
is on fire
your neighbor is walking down the street
and sees you there with your hose
smiling watering the lawn maybe you got
your travel out you're digging working
on the rose garden and your neighbor
says to you what are you doing what do
you think how can you enjoy yourself
it's not just that you're doing it is
that you're enjoying yourself doing it
well the roof of your house is on fire
you only have so much water in this hose
are you only so much time and so much
energy why don't you turn around and
start spraying the water at the roof of
your house why don't you try to to save
your house from the fire how can you how
can you do this look guys after you
emerge from a pretty primitive level of
ignorance and self-absorption you must
realize that in this life somebody's
house somewhere is always on fire and
yeah it seems more absurd when it's when
it's your house but you know I gave a
positive example I talked about this guy
rarely who's out getting involved in
humanitarian work in Syria and it's it's
neighboring countries and I said you
guys he's not Syrian it's not his
problem it's not his fight and I said he
could have thrown a dart of the map and
helped you know he could be in Ethiopia
he could be you know guys was I don't
know Switzer
there's you know what even that I'm
joking but you know I've there are poor
people in Switzerland there are social
problems where there are political
struggles in Switzerland you could make
a positive difference in supposed one
too and you could start doing research
and humanitarian work and probably learn
a lot so it's known also so yeah in
principle you can throw it okay not
Antarctica maybe well it's not the map
and almost anywhere you know you could
get positively positively involved right
and yeah you know um this is part of my
perception of the world philosophically
before I was involved in veganism and
before I was involved in Buddhism but it
fits very well with Tara badda Buddhism
and and veganism and all the rest of it
you know the world is on fire the world
is on fire ecologically the world is on
fire in terms of social inequality
poverty the world is on fire in terms of
war in all directions at all times and
there's always urging crucial need for
you to do whatever is you can and what
you can do may be trivial but this have
made many many videos talking with us
and I know even rohui himself sent me
feel about this the ultimate product is
not peace the ultimate product is not
that you end the war in syria and create
Brotherhood and goodwill between men the
ultimate product is not that you end
poverty right the impact you have may be
infinitesimal right the part is you the
part is what kind of person do you want
to be do you want to be the
self-indulgent fatuous person who's
standing there water his garden smiling
and laughing working with his trowel
planting rose bushes whatever you want
to say do you want to be the person
fiddling while Rome burns do you want to
be the person playing video games do you
want to look back and say yeah what did
I do with that decade yeah yeah yeah
there was the war in Afghanistan there
was the war in Iraq and there was Syria
and there was a look whatever we
Cambodia Japan everyone's there there
are problems everywhere I mean certainly
even within Japan you know a peaceful
and in some ways economic social country
believe me there were issues you could
be dig into and you could be learning
this is my [ __ ] ethical point here do
you want to be the
person who spent that decade whether
it's the last decade or the next decade
just devoted to your own self-indulgence
and enjoyment because if that's who you
are I can tell you right now who you're
gonna become five years from now in ten
years now and for those of you who were
reading in the comment session you I
think you saw every single time I asked
vegan gains about that he didn't want to
answer that question I said Richard who
do you want to be who do you want to
become five years from now ten years
from now and how are you gonna get there
is it gonna be by playing video games is
it gonna be by living a life of reckless
self-indulgence and doing whatever it is
you want to do whatever you want to do
it I mean for me part of becoming the
person I want to be actually does
involve reading Aristotle as ridiculous
as that sounds listen I talked about
this you know which was eight years ago
whatever maybe one year ago now but you
remember I said to you you know I made a
list of the most important sources from
ancient Greece and Rome and I said what
you got to realize is everybody
everybody who's made a difference in
Western civilization even Bill Clinton
they've all read the books on this list
you know it's kind of mind-blowing when
you think about it some of those major
works in the history of political
philosophy yet Bill Clinton may seem
like a really shallow guy but you know
you look at you even though just a list
of University of courses he went through
and so on
whatever the prime ministers of England
everyone it's been - a quote unquote
greats program that came to Cambridge in
Oxford there's a whole social elite out
there and they know these books and you
don't so you can you could take away the
different you can level the playing
field right now just by getting up to
speed with the foundations of democracy
political philosophy and so on and so
forth
sure in some small way reading Aristotle
really did matter for me becoming the
the person I wanted to be and some of
those things you get into them without
knowing what they're most people who
commit to studying Buddhist philosophy
they don't really know what they're
studying and tell us do you late you
know they have a vague idea maybe from
watching kung fu movies legitimately for
many people's their first encounter with
Buddhist philosophy they think okay I'm
gonna commit so much time and so much
effort to reading put its philosophy
then you find out after what Buddhist
philosophy really is I think that's a
special
true with religion and religious
philosophy right creativity and
destruction in many contexts are one and
the same thing when you take a block of
stone and you remove what you don't want
from it what remains is a statue in the
image you've chosen to create Who I am
now at 40 years old is the product of in
the sense creative destruction there are
aspects of my character I don't like is
the person I was when I was 16 years old
18 years old even 25 years old and yeah
you know what some of those things I've
taken away and some of those things
probably were the habit they were
produced through the habit of playing
video games back when I was 11 or what
have you or they were just the product
of childish ignorance and the upbringing
I had and the parents I had and the
culture I was raised in all kinds of
things I can't change it I don't have
control over right in a sense we're
making it easy just in talking about
Aristotle target was like positive that
you you grab onto an add to your body of
knowledge and in not talking about the
things we subtract we delete we take
away but one in the same image of a man
can be described positively if you're
sketching it out with a pencil on paper
or if you're carving it away from a
block of stone right it can be the same
the same image and what we're doing in
choosing who we want to be and then
making the sacrifices and commitments
and effort and energy to become that
person
sure its destructive sure if if Richard
wanted to step up and be a better person
he'd have a lot to lose he have to lose
a lot of the things that have become
comforts to him that have become a
crutch and there's no doubt that's why
the reaction am I saying something so
simple and so plain is what what can I
say is so surreal is so observed people
don't want to hear it's it's simply
advice nobody wants to hear I could end
the video there but let's just let's
just address one more one more issue
that was was raised some people wrote in
really sincerely claiming that there is
no difference between reading a book
daemul reading philosophy reading
Aristotle and playing a video game let's
let's treat that as a sincere objection
what if there's someone who's so
ignorant and their experience this life
is so limited that they have only read
books that were of such extraordinarily
low educational value that they really
were just as bad as playing video game
you know what if there's someone who
listen to that video and when I talk
about reading flaws of Aristotle age 19
I'm reading it again age 39
they can't relate where for them the
most meaningful thing in their lives
actually has been playing video games
and they really genuinely don't know
what I'm talking about when I say that
reading a book studying history politics
languages or getting out in the world
and doing real things through
humanitarian work that they actually
don't know because look books are on a
spectrum there are some books so
meaningless that they are just as much
of a waste of your time as playing video
games and there are some books so
meaningful and that are such a
productive educational use of your time
that it blows my mind to to hear them
compared to the video games sure there's
a there's a spectrum out there right and
you know if you don't really have that
experience and what can I tell you I
pity you but here's what you should be
able to get there isn't just a
distinction here between meaningful and
meaningless there isn't just a
distinction here between great art and
vacuous entertainment right the other
distinction I'm trying to get at here is
between real and fake and that's why I
talked about heroism right that's why I
talked about going out in the real world
and doing real things because ultimately
what I'm asking you to do is not to act
out the fantasy of being a hero in a
video game but to take seriously the
potential you have to be a protagonist
in your own life to reject easy virtue
in a simulated world that lets you
design a cities well let's just stick
with that example city building games
have you ever thought about how much
work would be for you to go down a City
Hall whatever city you're living in and
just get involved in a few political
issues local level pollution and the
river city planning for you to have an
impact on the future of your city
politically in real life how many years
of hard and humbling work that might be
and what that might do to you and what
kind of person you might become
playing video games is easy playing
video games is entertaining and many
people correctly discerned that my
philosophy is basically E&T
entertainment anti self-indulgence I'd
say that my ethical system is based on
inverse Peten ism because from my
perspective I don't understand how you
can stand there smiling and enjoying
gardening in your lawn when you know
right behind you your own house is on
fire and if you're so selfish that you
only care about your own house I see
that as a terrible myopia of our times
why can't you just look over the fence
why can't you look at your neighbor's
house why can't you look down the block
yeah through the magic of the internet
it's easier than ever to know we don't
live in a global utopia somebody's house
somewhere is burning down and there's a
real question of justifying living a
life of self-indulgence living a life
for your own entertainment as an adult
when you're 5 years old it's different
five year old on an airplane or a train
sure my daughter plays video games
sitting next to me on the train when
there's really nothing else productive
she can do at five years old there comes
a time to put childish things away and
just start to get seriously interested
in responsibility as an adult and that
responsibility is not just to make the
world a better place
it's to make yourself a better person